The carbon filter is an estimation algorithm that is very prominent in controls.
It's used to estimate the value of a variable in
real time as the data is being collected.
This variable can represent the position or velocity of a robot,
or for example, the temperature of a process.
The reason that the Kalman filter is so noteworthy is because it
can take data with a lot of uncertainty or noise in the measurements,
and provide a very accurate estimate of the real value.
And it can do it so fast.
Unlike other estimation algorithms,
you don't need to wait for a lot of data to come
in in order to calculate an accurate estimate.
Let's look at an example.
Here, we're measuring the pressure that
an underwater robot experiences as it swims through water.
Recall that underwater, pressure increases linearly with depth.
The pressure measurements are not perfectly accurate though.
There may be fluctuations in the water causing fluctuations in
pressure as well as electrical noise from the sensor itself.
As soon as the pressure sensors start collecting data,
the Kalman filter begins to narrow in and estimate the actual pressure.
In addition to the sensor readings,
the Kalman filter also takes into account the uncertainty of the sensor readings,
which are specific to the sensor being used and the environment that it is operating in.
Now, you might be wondering,
at a high level, what is happening every time a measurement is recorded?
Well, that's a two-step process,
and the Kalman filter is a continuous iteration of these two steps.
The first step is a measurement update which is exactly what it sounds like.
We use the recorded measurement to update our state.
The second step is a state prediction.
We use the information that we have about
the current state to predict what the future state will be.
At the start, we use an initial guess.
We continue to iterate through these two steps and it doesn't take
many iterations for our estimate to converge on the real value.
In this lesson, we will dive into the implementation of each of these steps.
By the end of the lesson,
you will have an intuitive understanding of
the Kalman filter algorithm as well as be able to implement it in C++.